MATRIX: Mixed-basis Architecture using Towering Field
Representations for Extendable Grøstl State Blocks
1st Yuta Kodera

2nd Yasuyuki Nogami

Graduate School of Environment, Life,
Natural Science and Technology, Okayama University,
Okayama, Japan
yuta kodera@okayama-u.ac.jp

Graduate School of Environment, Life,
Natural Science and Technology, Okayama University,
Okayama, Japan
yasuyuki.nogami@okayama-u.ac.jp

Abstract—This paper introduces a novel matrix representation
for the Grøstl hash function using a Mersenne prime and a tower
of ﬁelds. Our approach focuses on the structure of a tower of
ﬁelds, and we propose to regard it as a matrix to reduce the circuit
size by conducting the round operations without lookup tables.
Especially, we adopt a mixed basis architecture using a Gauss
normal basis and a polynomial basis to build a tower of ﬁelds.
This approach allows a simple modular arithmetic and optimal
table-less round operation that inherits the basic principle of the
Grøstl design.
Index Terms—Grøstl, Mersenne primes, tower of ﬁelds, Gauss
normal basis

I. I NTRODUCTION
Cryptographic hash functions are one of the inseparable
primitives for a modern digital infrastructure to protect from
the falsiﬁcation of data, such as codes and signatures, for
example. In addition, a hash function is also valuable for
realizing cryptocurrencies on a blockchain mechanism and
password management, including authentication logics.
Recently, these systems have been leveraged even on
resource-limited devices such as IoT devices, embedded systems, and mobile applications. It increases the opportunity
of multiplatform implementation for cryptographic primitives,
and this sometimes induces an obstacle, in particular for
the memory consumption. To overcome the drawbacks, we
introduce a novel structure of a cryptographic hash function
based on Grøstl [1].
Grøstl is a well-known cryptographic hash function as a
SHA-3 ﬁnalist, which is designed as a byte-oriented SPnetwork. The component is borrowed from the AES [2], and
the permutations in the compression function there are inspired
by the Rijndael block cipher [3]. It has been widely studied
in many aspects.
For example, Kaur et al. [4] proposed a modiﬁed Grøstl
that guarantees the equivalent security level as the original
one, and Rao et al. [5] proposed an efﬁcient implementation
for an FPGA (ﬁeld-programmable gate array). In addition,
researchers steadily made advances in breaking AES-like hash
functions [6]–[8] including Grøstl. These results indicate that
the risks of attacks have increased in proportion to the design
of a hash function that becomes closer to that of AES.
In this context, we think that another variant of an AES-like
structure, but it’s not the same as the traditional architecture, is

required for the upcoming threats. Therefore, the main purpose
of this paper is to introduce a variant of the AES-like scheme,
in particular for concentrating on Grøstl and its state matrix
and efﬁcient round operations over the matrix.
More precisely, although there are two types of state matrices in Grøstl for the short and the large variants, we propose
to ﬁx a state block size. Since our architecture adopts two
different basis representations to express a state matrix over
a prime ﬁeld, it is convenient for designing, analysing, and
implementing the hash function. More precisely, it may involve
risks for a vulnerability that comes from the misunderstanding
or not ﬁtting the conditions for the parameters in case a method
requires exploring the adequate polynomials to build a tower
of ﬁelds each time.
Thus, we consider an optimal block size for a state matrix
representation in this paper. On the other hand, such an
approach lacks an opportunity to change the output size as
the user desired, which is also realized in Grøstl as the short
and large variants. To address this drawback, we intentionally
leave some options for a prime ﬁeld.
In detail, since the output size of Grøstl relies on the entire
bit size of the internal state matrix, the short variants use 8×8
state matrix and the large variants use 8 × 16 state matrix,
where each entry of the respective state matrix is 8-bits hex
value. In contrast, although our method ﬁxes the block size
as 4, a prime ﬁeld which deﬁnes the bit size of an entry
for a state matrix is selected from Mersenne primes such as
27 − 1, 231 − 1, and 2127 − 1. This is because these primes
allow us to implement an efﬁcient modular arithmetic, and the
approximate bit size ﬁts the modern integer data types.
Furthermore, since a modiﬁcation on the state block affects
each round operation, we review the structure of operations for
Grøstl by taking over the design principles of both Grøstl and
the AES. However, concrete cryptanalysis and exploration of
optimal maximum distance separable (MDS) matrix still have
not been clariﬁed. These problems remain open, and we would
like to solve them in future works.
II. P RELIMINARIES
This section brieﬂy reviews the fundamentals concering
ﬁelds, bases [9], and Grøstl [1].

A. Fields and bases
Let L/K be an extension ﬁeld of a ﬁeld K and let [L : K]
denote the dimension of L as a vector space over K. The
dimension is assumed to be a ﬁnite in this paper; i.e. [L :
K] = m for a positive integer m. If there is a tower of ﬁelds
K ⊆ L ⊆ M , then [M : K] = [M : L][L : K] is held.
A polynomial of degree n(> 0) over F is deﬁned by
the linear combination of n coefﬁcients and the powers of a
variable. More precisely, let F [x] be
∑an set ofi all polynomials
over F and let F [x] ∋ f (x) =
i=0 fi x (fn ̸= 0) be a
polynomial of degree n.
Assume that f (x) is irreducible and E is the ﬁeld
F [x]/ (f (x)), where (f (x)) is a principal ideal. Then, the
collection
of the powers
of a root θ for f (x), denoted by
}
{
1, θ, θ 2 , . . . , θ n−1 , form a basis, and an arbitrary element a
∑n−1
in the extension ﬁeld can be represented by a = i=0 ai θi ,
where ai ∈ F . We call the basis a polynomial basis to
distinguish it from another type of basis called a normal basis.
A normal basis is a collection of n-linearly independent conjugates concerning a speciﬁc element, where such an element
is specially called a normal element of E over F . Concretely,
let F = Fp and E = Fq be a prime number p and its nth power q = pn , respectively. According to the Frobenius
endomorphism ϕi : E → E, we can have conjugates of α ∈ Fq
pi
with its p-th powers ϕi (α)
0 ≤ i }< n. If the
{ = α , where
n−1
p
p2
set of all conjugates A = α, α , α , . . . , αp
is linearly
independent of each other, then A is a normal basis of Fq .
It is noted that not every element in an extension ﬁeld
cannot form a normal basis. However, there is a systematic
construction scheme called Gauss normal basis (GNBs) [10]–
[14].
For a prime p and an extension degree m, the GNBs can
be constructed with a cyclotomic polynomial of degree kh + 1
when the parameters satisfy the all conditions below.
• p ̸= mh + 1
• gcd(e, mh/e) = 1 for the order e of p under the modulo
m.
Let Φm (x) be a polynomial over Fp and let β be a root
of Φm (x). Then, a normal element α is obtained by α =
∑
h−1 dih
and the collection of the conjugates of α forms a
i=0 β
normal basis, where dh is a primitive h-th root of unity.
B. Grøstl
1) Overview of the construction: The hash function Grøstl
[1] was selected as a ﬁnalist in the SHA-3 competition. It is
designed that the component of the Grøstl is a byte-oriented
SP-network based on the AES [2]. Since Grøstl has a widepipe construction, which means the size of the output is much
shorter than that of the internal state, the risks against wellknown attacks degrade.
More formally, Grøstl is deﬁned with a compression function f and an output transformation, denoted by Ω, as illustrated in Fig. 1, where Ω is a function that truncates an l-bit
input to the n-bit output for positive integers l and n such that
l ≥ 2n.

Fig. 1. Overview of the construction of Grøstl hash function

Grøstl iterates f and truncates the t-th output of f , where t
is a positive integer that is derived from the number of message
blocks. Let hi be the output of f in the i-th iteration, and let
M denote the message. The message is split into message
blocks of length l, where l is a ﬁxed integer determined as
l = 512 if Grøstl variants return up to 256 bits and l = 1024
for larger variants.
Let h0 = iv be an initial l-bit value. The compression
function f maps two inputs hi−1 and mi to an l-bit output hi
as follows, where i = 1, 2, . . ..
hi ← f (hi−1 , mi )
More precisely, the function f is made up of two l-bit
permutations, denoted by P and Q, respectively, as follows:
f (hi−1 , mi ) = P (hi−1 ⊕ mi ) ⊕ Q(mi ) ⊕ hi−1
In addition, the output transformation Ω is deﬁned with the
same permutation P as f , and it is deﬁned by
Ω(x) = truncn (P (x) ⊕ x)
, where truncn represents the operation that discards all but
the trailing n-bits of x.
The number of rounds, denoted by r, and initial values,
denoted by ivn are deﬁned as shown in Tab. (I) and Tab. (II).

TABLE I
N UMBER OF ROUNDS
Permutations

Digest sizes

Recommended

P512 and Q512

8-256

10

P1024 and Q1024

264-512

14

TABLE II
I NITAIL VALUES
n

ivn

224

00 . . . 00 00 e0

256

00 . . . 00 01 00

384

00 . . . 00 01 80

512

00 . . . 00 20 00

In addition, the padding function pad(x) is deﬁned to obtain
the adequate message block length, which is a multiple of
l, from an input x of length N (> 0)-bits. The function
concatenate x with the bit 1 and w numbers of 0’s, where
w = −N − 65 (mod l). Finally, it appends a 64-bit representation of (N + w + 65)/l and returns the bit string.

C. Design of the permutations
The permutations P and Q in the compression function f
are inspired by the Rijndael block cipher [3]; i.e. there is
a round, and four round transformations, called AddRoundConstant, SubBytes, ShiftBytes, MixBytes, are deﬁned for
each permutation. A round R is expressed by the composite
mapping as R = MixBytes ◦ ShiftBytes ◦ SubBytes ◦
AddRoundConstant1 .
Grøstl uses the internal block size properly depending on
the variants such that 8 × 8 for the short variants and 8 × 16
for the large variants. Since the block size is not the same as
the AES, the block in the round transformations is extended
as necessary. For convenience, we use the subscriptions to
distinguish the variants by following the manner in [1].
1) AddRoundConstant: The AddRoundConstant takes a
state as input and performs an exclusive-or (XOR) operation with a round constant C[i], which is deﬁned for
P512 , Q512 , P1024 and Q1024 independently. For example, constants for the short variants are designed as follows:


00 ⊕ i 10 ⊕ i 20 ⊕ i · · · 70 ⊕ i




00
00
···
00 
 00


P512 : C[i] =  .
..
..
..
.. 
 ..
.
.
.
. 




Q512

:

00

00

00

···

00

ff
..
.

ff
..
.

ff
..
.

···
..
.

ff
..
.




C[i] = 

 ff
ff
ff

f f ⊕ i ef ⊕ i df ⊕ i

···
···








ff 

8f ⊕ i

These constants are used to update a state A by taking XOR
as A = A ⊕ C[i].
2) ShiftBytes/ShiftBytesWide: The ShiftBytes and ShiftBytesWide are used for the short variants and the large
variants, respectively. They perform a cyclic shift operation
based on the well-deﬁned shift values, which differ in the
permutations P and Q.
More precisely, the respective shift amount in P and Q is
set to be different and is set to have an optimal diffusion.
Let σ = [σ1 , σ2 , . . . , σ7 ] be a list of shift values consisting
of distinct integers so that it becomes harder to line up the
differences or any other pattern in P and Q or to cancel each
other.
This property is achieved by using a different slope
for P and Q. For example, ShiftBytes in P512 is deﬁned
by σ = [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7] and that in Q512 is σ =
[1, 3, 5, 7, 0, 2, 4, 6]. Both are known to be optimal for diffusion
after two rounds.
3) SubBytes: The SubBytes is used as a mapping that
substitutes each byte in its input state with another byte by
referring to a substitution box (s-box).
1 It is noted that ShiftBytesWide is used instead of ShiftBytes for the longer
instance

The design of its s-box is the same as Rijndael’s one, and
the concrete s-box for Grøstl can be available in Appendix B
in [1]. Literary, the functions are described as ai,j ← S(ai,j )
for an input byte ai,j in the input state and the s-box S, where
i and j are iterators of the state matrix.
4) MixBytes: The MixBytes is designed by following the
wide trail strategy; that is, the transformation is based on an
error-correcting code with the maximum distance separable
(MDS) property. Although there are many MDS codes, Grøstl
adopts the MDS matrix B = circ(02, 02, 03, 04, 05, 03, 05, 07)
over F256 for the efﬁciency of implementations. It is noted
that circ(02, 02, 03, 04, 05, 03, 05, 07) represents the circulant
matrix.
Since the ﬁeld F256 is constructed by an irreducible polynomial x8 + x4 + x3 + x + 1 in the same manner as the AES,
the MixBytes transforms the input state A by performing the
matrix multiplication together with B.
III. D ESIGN OF MATRIX
In this section, we propose a variant of Grøstl using a
Mersenne prime and tower of ﬁelds.
A. Background of the approach
Basically, our approach follows the design criteria of Grøstl ,
however, there is a slight difference that comes from the tradeoff between implementations using lookup tables (LUTs) and
actual computations. Since Grøstl deals with state blocks as a
matrix consisting of bytes that are isomorphic to the extension
ﬁeld F28 , its implementation strategy is often based on LUTs
for ease and efﬁciency. On the other hand, LUTs consume
many resources rather than actual computations.
It is noted that our approach inherits the design of the
compression function f and the output transformation Ω as it
is. The main contribution of this paper is to introduce the novel
structure of the state matrix for Grøstl and round operations
on it.
In this context, we propose to regard an extension ﬁeld
element as a state matrix and reconﬁgure Grøstl that can
be implemented with optimal computations. We refer to this
structure as Mixed-basis Architecture using Towering Field
Representations for Extendable Grøstl State Blocks (MATRIX).
B. Design principle
Let p be a prime number and let mc and mr be positive
integers. A tower of ﬁelds we used for the construction is
denoted by F(pmc )mr .
For a characteristic ﬁeld Fp , the ﬁrst extension ﬁeld of
degree mc is deﬁned by a cyclotomic polynomial so that the
ﬁeld elements are represented by a GNB. The second extension
ﬁeld is endowed by an irreducible polynomial of degree mr
over Fpmc , where the basis of F(pmc )mr is assumed to be a
polynomial basis.
Then, an element in F(pmc )mr is written by a linear combination of the mixture of the normal basis and the polynomial
basis. We regard this extension ﬁeld element as mr ×mc matrix

bits of the compression function f , and the difference results
in their block sizes. In other words, since each entry in the
state matrix in Grøstl is 8-bits, the block sizes of the short and
the large variants are deﬁned by 8 × 8 and 8 × 16, respectively.
Tab. (III) shows the minimum sets to obtain a GNB for
Fpmc . As seen from the table, mc = 4 has the smallest
h, and this would be the best option since h dominates the
number of component terms to construct a normal element
via Gauss periods. This means that the multiplicative operation
over Fpmc becomes inefﬁcient in proportion to the increment
of the value of h.
TABLE III
T HE MINIMUM SETS TO OBTAIN A GNB FOR Fpmc

Fig. 2. An extension ﬁeld element as a state matrix

whose entries are Fp elements and use it to construct a variant
of Grøstl .
More formally, the variant is designed as follows. Let h
be a positive integer such that hmc + 1 is a distinct prime
against p and let β be a root of a cyclotomic polynomial (or
hmc
we say all one polynomial)
Φr (x) = x}
+ . . . + 1. A GNB
{
p
pmc −1
is then obtained as α, α , . . . , α
for a normal element
∑h−1 di
α = i=0 β h . The set of coefﬁcients of each element in this
extension ﬁeld is dealt with as a column vector of the state
matrix.
In the same way, a row vector of the state matrix is
represented by a basis over Fpmc ; that is, the i-th row vector
is composed of i-th coefﬁcients of the corresponding column
vectors. The difference is that the basis is a polynomial basis
consisting of a root of an irreducible polynomial over Fpmc .
Let g(x) be an irreducible polynomial of degree mr over
Fpmc and let γ denote a root of g(x). Then, the ﬁeld F(pmc )mr
is isomorphic to Fpmc [x]/g(x) and the elements in there are
represented by a linear combination of Fpmc -elements and the
powers of γ.
This towering structure allows us to view F(pmc )mr -element
as shown in Fig. 2, where ci,j is an Fp -element.
C. Optimal instances of MATRIX
Here, we consider an optimal design of the proposed
structure. Considering the ease of implementation of modular
arithmetic and the architecture of modern integer data types,
we think that Mersenne primes such as 27 − 1, 231 − 1, and
2127 − 1 are reasonable candidates. In addition, recall from
Sec. (II-A), GNBs have to satisfy the conditions concerning a
prime number and an extension degree. Those conditions can
be one of the drawbacks if one cannot ﬁnd a superior pair of
p, mc , and Φr .
More precisely, Grøstl has the short and large variants,
which are distinguished by the length l of internal in-and-out

p

mc

h

27 − 1

4

1

27 − 1

8

11

27 − 1

16

6

231 − 1

4

1

231 − 1

8

5

231 − 1

16

12

2127 − 1

4

1

2127 − 1

8

11

2127 − 1

16

7

Therefore, the block size of the proposed method is preferable to be 4 × 4 since Rijndael’s block design and the round
operations can be importable under these settings. Regarding
the short and large variants in Grøstl , we propose to switch
the characteristic ﬁeld to make the internal bit length l ﬂexible.
In this context, the polynomials to deﬁne F(pmc )mr are
ideal to be selected as a cyclotomic polynomial Φ5 (x) and
an irreducible polynomial of form x4 − θ for the efﬁciency of
computations, where θ is a quadratic non residue over Fpmc .
D. Round operations for an optimal MATRIX instance
For a prime p = 27 − 1, 231 − 1, or 2127 − 1, consider the
4 × 4 matrix whose entries are elements in Fp . The round
operations for this matrix are deﬁned as follows:
• AddRoundConstant uses round constants C[i] of P and
Q in the compression function f which are deﬁned as
follows:


00 ⊕ i 10 ⊕ i 20 ⊕ i 30 ⊕ i




00
00
00 
 00

P : C[i] = 
..
..
.. 
 ..

 .
.
.
.


00
00
00
00


ff
ff
ff
ff


..
..
.. 
 ..
 .
.
.
. 

Q : C[i] = 



 ff
f
f
f
f
f
f


f f ⊕ i ef ⊕ i df ⊕ i cf ⊕ i

ShiftBytes operates a cyclic shift as deﬁned in the Rijndael; that is, an i-th row is cyclically left-shifted.
• SubBytes uses an inverse operation and an afﬁne transformation as the Rijndael does; however, it differs in the
sense that the calculation is conducted for the entire state
matrix. The actual operations
for an i-th state matrix,
∑m
r −1
denoted by F(pmc )mr ∋ a = i=0
ai γ i for ai ∈ Fpmc ,
are as follows:
1) Calculate the inverse of a which can be endowed by
using the Itoh-Tsujii algorithm [15] and the norm of
a as shown in Eq. (1).
2) Apply an afﬁne transform to the resultant element
a−1 .
3
∏
mc i
1
−1
(1)
a =
a(p )
NF(pmc )mr /Fpmc (a) i=1
•

, where NF(pmc )mr /Fpmc (x) shows the norm function for x ∈ F(pmc )mr .
It is noted that since a normal basis allows us to conduct
the Frobenius-endomorphism map without an actual computation by a coefﬁcient shift, the norm calculation can be
simpliﬁed rather than using a polynomial basis for Fpmc .
In addition, [16] can provide an efﬁcient multiplication
over Fp4 compared to a Karatsuba-based approach.
• MixBytes is expected to map elements to have optimal
diffusion, and this is originally achieved by a maximum
distance separable (MDS) matrix. Since the MixBytes
in the Rijndael can be dealt with as (8, 4, 5) ReedSolomon (RS) codes, previous research concerning RScodes with a Mersenne prime can be reused. Considering
the efﬁciency of the modular arithmetic with a mersenne
prime, Vandermonde-RS code can be a suitable option
for the proposed method.
E. Open problems
Several unsolved problems remain in the proposed construction, both theoretically and practically. For example,
ﬁnding a practical instance of the MixBytes, which means
the exploration of an ideal MDS matrix, is essential for the
proposed method. In other words, although we can explore
candidates based on the traditional construction scheme of the
RS codes, an optimal matrix for the MixBytes is not clear.
In addition, since a sufﬁcient initial vector and the number
of rounds still have not been well discussed by taking into
account the cryptoanalysis for the proposed method, it must
be taken into account in further development. These problems
remain open.
IV. C ONCLUSION
In this paper, we introduced a technique to represent a state
matrix in Grøstl using a tower of ﬁelds over a prime ﬁeld.
Especially, since a Mersenne prime allows us to implement a
modular operation with low computational costs and some of
them are approximately equal to the size of modern integer
data types, we adopted it and proposed to build a tower of
ﬁelds using a GNB and a polynomial basis.

In addition, the proposed structure requires modifying the
details of the round operations in Grøstl , and the direction
of the approach was introduced. However, the more detailed
structure of these operations could not be covered due to the
page limitations. Therefore, we declared some of them as open
problems and would like to make advances in future work.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work was partially supported by KAKENHI Grant-inAid for Early-Career Scientists (24K20773).
R EFERENCES
[1] P. Gauravaram, L. R. Knudsen, K. Matusiewicz, F. Mendel, C. Rechberger, M. Schläffer, and S. S. Thomsen, “Grøstl - a SHA-3 candidate,”
Submission to NIST, Round 3, 2011. http://groestl.info
[2] FIPS publications 197, “Advanced Encryption Standard (AES),” NIST,
Gaithersburg, MD, USA, FIPS PUB 197, Nov. 2001. https://csrc.nist.
gov/publications/ﬁps/ﬁps197/ﬁps-197.pdf
[3] J. Daemen and V. Rijmen, “The Design of Rijndael: AES - The Advanced Encryption Standard,” Information Security and Cryptography.
Berlin, Germany: Springer-Verlag, 2002.
[4] G. Kaur, V. S. Nayak, D. Dey, and S. K. Pal, “Modiﬁed Grøstl: An
Efﬁcient Hash Function,” in Advances in Computer Science, Engineering & Applications, D. Wyld, J. Zizka, and D. Nagamalai, Eds. Berlin,
Heidelberg: Springer, pp. 823-834, 2012.
[5] M. M. Rao, K. Latif, A. Aziz, and A. Mahboob, “Efﬁcient FPGA
Implementation of Secure Hash Algorithm Grøstl – SHA-3 Finalist,”
in Emerging Trends and Applications in Information Communication
Technologies, B. S. Chowdhry, F. K. Shaikh, D. M. A. Hussain, and M.
A. Uqaili, Eds. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer, pp. 355-365, 2012.
[6] X. Dong, S. Sun, D. Shi, F. Gao, X. Wang, and L. Hu, “Quantum
Collision Attacks on AES-Like Hashing with Low Quantum Random
Access Memories,” in ASIACRYPT 2020, vol. 12492, Springer, pp. 727757, 2020.
[7] X. Dong, J. Guo, S. Li, and P. Pham, “Triangulating Rebound Attack on
AES-like Hashing,” in CRYPTO 2022, vol. 13507, Springer, pp. 94-124,
2022.
[8] Z. Bao, J. Guo, S. Li, and P. Pham, “Automatic Quantum Multi-collision
Distinguishers and Rebound Attacks with Triangulation Algorithm,” in
ACISP 2024, Springer, pp. 24-43, 2024.
[9] R. Lidl and H. Niederreiter, “Introduction to Finite Fields and Their
Applications,” Cambridge University Press, New York, NY, 1986.
[10] R. C. Mullin, I. M. Onyszchuk, S. A. Vanstone, and R. M. Wilson,
“Optimal normal bases in GF(pn ), Discrete Appl. Math., vol. 22, no.
2, pp. 149–161, Feb. 1989.
[11] S. Gao, J. von zur Gathen, and D. Panario, “Gauss periods: orders
and cryptographical applications,” Math. Comput., vol. 67, no. 221, pp.
343–352, Jan. 1998.
[12] S. Gao, “Abelian groups, Gauss periods, and normal bases,” Finite Fields
Appl., vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 149–161, Jan. 2001.
[13] C. Lee, “Concurrent error detection and correction in Gaussian normal
basis multiplier over GF(2m ),” IEEE Trans. Comput., vol. 58, no. 10,
pp. 1355–1367, Oct. 2009.
[14] K. Nekado, Y. Nogami, H. Kato, and Y. Morikawa, “Cyclic vector
multiplication algorithm and existence probability of Gauss period
normal basis,” IEICE Trans. Fundamentals, vol. E94-A, no. 1, pp. 172179, Jan. 2011.
[15] T. Itoh and S. Tsujii, ”A fast algorithm for computing multiplicative
inverses in GF(2m ) using normal bases,” Information and Computation,
vol. 78, no. 3, pp MediumResearchGate. 171-177, 1988.
[16] Y. Kodera, S. Duquesne, and Y. Nogami, “Multiplication and squaring in
cubic and quartic extensions for pairing based cryptography,” in Finite
Fields and their Applications: Proceedings of Fq14, J. A. Davis, Ed.
Berlin, Germany: De Gruyter, 2020, pp. 71-86.

